.\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH isutf8 1 "12 October 2016" moreutils moreutils
.SH NAME
isutf8 \- check whether files are valid UTF-8
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBisutf8\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[\fB-hqliv\fR] [\fB--help\fR] [\fB--quiet\fR] [\fB--list\fR] [\fB--invert\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR] [\fIfile\fR\&...]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBisutf8\fR checks whether files are
syntactically valid UTF-8. Input is either files named on the
command line, or the standard input. Notices about files with
invalid UTF-8 are printed to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-h\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-help\fR\*(T>
Print out a help summary.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-q\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-quiet\fR\*(T>
Don't print messages telling which files are
invalid UTF-8, merely indicate it with the exit
status.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-l\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-list\fR\*(T>
Print only the names of files containing invalid
UTF-8.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-i\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-invert\fR\*(T>
Invert the selection: list UTF-8 compatible
files.
.TP 
\*(T<\fB\-v\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-verbose\fR\*(T>
Also print an hexdump-like view of the error and some
context.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
If the file is valid UTF-8, the exit status is zero.
If the file is not valid UTF-8, or there is some
error, the exit status is non-zero.
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Wirzenius, Julien Palard
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fButf8\fR(7)
